And welcome back.
In this video we're talking about exceptions and I'm quite chuffed I managed to go through what a lot
of the course without going into exceptions.
It wasn't a requirement.
You know we could have explained the exceptions earlier on but it wasn't 100 percent required.
And nevertheless now it is because exceptions really are something you should know about.
So let's end this project with a new director and now we're going to be moving on to exceptions and
I'm going to call it exceptions.
OK.
And then here I'm going to create a python file called intro exceptions.
First of all what is an exception.
Well an exception is just an error that happens in your program and therefore your program should stop
.
For example say that you tried to convert a string to a number and it fails.
Your program should stop.
Here's an example int or rather enter a number or number equals input into a number.
And then we do print int number.
OK.
Something basic something we've done plenty of times over.
We ask the user for something and we put that into a variable and then we convert that to a number.
For example if we were trying to say multiply by 2 let's press play into our number five then we get
10 printed out.
Fabulous.
Let's play that again and for a number a
value error.
This is an exception and this is a builtin exception in Python.
And what it says is invalid.
Let's rule for int with base 10.
A.
Basically I was expecting a number with base 10 in number between 0 9 and we gave it a which is not
one of those.
So it failed and he gave us a bunch of red text a traceback and the value era and the message the traceback
just tells you in which line the error happened.
In this case it's line to second line the value arrowed is the type of exception the happened.
And this is the message.
OK.
However we can not stop the program.
You see we can say you try to do this and then except value error.
I'm going to press that and say print.
You did not enter a base 10 number.
Try again.
OK then if I press play and I tap a.
What happens is no longer we get red text and a program clashes.
Now we go straight into this except part and we print this out what the letters do is let us handle
arrows a bit more gracefully.
Normally the program would crash and it would stop and if the program was doing more things below those
things would never happen.
But now
we can enter a.
And then we still get the code that happens after because the program no longer crashes.
Now what happens is that it tries to do this thing here.
If a value ever occurs then we print this out and then we continue normally.
So no crashing involved.
OK.
So instead of a value error we are accepting lookup error which is a different type of error.
We press play.
We enter the a.
What do you think is going to happen at this point what would you expect.
Think like a computer.
We're trying to do this.
And then we are except look up era.
What happens if a lookup error is raised.
We print this out.
What would you expect that to happen.
We're only accepting if there is a lookup error we get read text value error value error is not the
same as lookup error.
So we still crash because what we are accepting here is not what was raised.
Notice how Halo was not printed out.
Our program effectively stopped after here.
We can however look at it is a special type of error that is never going to get raised by this code
.
But we could accept multiple errors
and look up error.
This should never happen.
We can do this so we can accept a lookup error.
We can accept Valuator we can accept many different types of errors and then we can deal with them differently
depending on what the error is.
So once again we get our error message and then we continue after.
OK.
Now something else that's tends to happen is obviously when something like this happens and it's fairly
simple to to have and accept they're trying except as a good thing to do.
But something else that happens is that when we use existing code like other libraries those libraries
also raise errorless and we have to be able to deal with them.
For example let's revisit the requests library request the post and post and I'm going to import that
I may have to install it.
Yes.
So I will open up the preferences and type in requests and install that.
Now what will likely happen.
I know my code didn't get bigger.
OK that's fine.
Normally what happens is that my code grows in size every time I access the preferences.
And let's import that request post and where we're putting it here is HTP slash tax slash processing
dot com slash API slash sentiment and the data we're sending is text Hello world.
Surely you remember this.
This was when we were doing sentiment analysis on our tweet.
We can send them some text and then they can analyze and sort of if it's positive or negative or not
.
Now we can do Jason responds equals are don't Jason that's fine.
We can do label is our Jason label.
So now would get us the label stored in the Jasen for this request.
The response.
OK let's print that out.
Print the label and for now I'm going to comment that out
a ha there's an error there.
We don't know what that is but there is an error.
So what is happening.
Maybe we made a mistake maybe this wasn't the right thing to send maybe there was an error there for
some reason maybe we failed again.
Jason for some reason maybe the label doesn't exist.
We are not really sure what it is but what we know is that an arrow was raised and therefore we should
be protecting ourselves against that.
We should be protecting our program against complete failure.
And the way we do that is here in the traceback we would find our code.
Notice how this one here we did not write that code so we don't we can't really do anything about that
.
We didn't write that code object and equal self-taught wrote the code.
We didn't write that.
We don't care about that.
But we did write that.
So the error was raised in this line here we should now be able to defend ourselves against this Jason
decoder.
That doesn't mean forget about the error catch it.
And then if it happens again just doesn't matter.
Doesn't mean that it means protect your program against failure.
So try this except Jason the code era print.
We could not decode the Jason Ross bombs.
We have to import this Jason the code error which we can do like that.
Now when we do that again we again we cannot decode rejection response.
And because a label is assigned to in there then the label there is undefined.
So it says name error label is not defined.
What we should do really is not print the label down there but rather print it down here and then.
This won't happen.
OK.
I'm not really sure what the problem is but at this point in time it doesn't really matter.
The purpose of this video is not to teach you more why and this sentimentalities thing is not working
but rather that you should keep in mind that these things can raise errors and you should protect your
application against complete failure.
Another type of error that could happen is a key error.
For example if Jason comes back but it does not have a key label.
So in that case he would say exempt key era print.
We got Jason back from sentiment analysis.
But it did not have a label or a key label for example.
That way when your application does fail you'll get a nice message.
They are telling you what went wrong.
However that's probably not the best way to go about things because if you have a lot of printing going
on you may miss some errors.
So in some instances it is better to raise the errors or let them proceed without essentially just continuing
.
So letting your application crash so that you can notice the errors we're going to look at that in the
very next video.
So stay tuned.
See you there